>> Scott Moss: So if I add a delay to this
lets say mid here and let's add a newPet.
>> Scott Moss: Jenkins, cool, we can just
load in screen, pretty awesome, right?
I'm not a fan of that, I don't like
loading screens, I just don't like it.
I mean, maybe you work really hard on that
spinner, and you like it, and it's clean.
You got it off CSS tricks or
code pin and you're like,
this is like the number one rated spinner.
And I spent two days making it a react
component and it's just so great.
I centered it, it's so awesome,
[LAUGH] I know how we get with that stuff.
So I actually don't like it,
I don't like spinners, I like more,
I don't know, fast filling UIs,
things that are more optimized.
I'm in a boat of kind of what
the Facebook's doing with the world,
where they show you the skeleton of
a component and they load it in gradually.
I like things like that,
that's called optimistic UI.
So your UI is optimistic that
the server is gonna respond back with
exactly what they think it is.
So they just went ahead and
did it for you anyway, right?
If you ever played a multiplayer game,
how the architecture works,
you have local state on
the multiplayer game.
So when you're playing a fighting game and
you press a button,
it's gonna happen on your machine first.
And then it goes to the server, and
then the server agrees with all the other
clients and then everything works out.
Everybody sees the same thing, but
it updates on your machine first, right?
When it doesn't update, that's when
you get that lag, it looks different.
We can get that for free with Apollo,
so we can get a that optimistic update
where we just update our local app
before our server even comes back.
And if there's a disagreement well see
some lag, but there's not a disagreement,
no one will ever notice.
They won't even see it load in,
it'll look like it happened instantly and
I'm a big fan of that.
Okay, yeah, Optimistic UI, so here's
my definition have written down for.
Basic ultimate UIs ,when your UI does not
wait until after a mutation operation to
update itself.
Instead, it anticipates
the response from the API and
proceeds as if the API
call was synchronized.
The API response replaces
the generated one,
this gives the illusion of
your app being really fast.
That's basically what Optimistic UI is.
So like I said, Apollo provides a simple
hook that allows you to write to
a local cache after a mutation.
That's not the same thing that we just
did, I know that sounds very simple to,
wait, isn't that just update?
Not quite, because update happens
after a mutation comes back.
So you can do optimistic update,
after the mutations already done,
you already waited.
The hook that I'm talking about which
is the optimistic response is going
to happen.
When, as soon as you execute a mutation,
before it comes back.
That's the whole point of
optimistic response, so
I'm gonna go to GitHub right click.
I wanna simulate some network delay and
we can do this in Apollo
client pretty easily.
Using,
>> Scott Moss: A new link.
So I'm just gonna go grab this link
that I have here, this delay link,
which is pretty cool, bam,
bam, bam, grab that, okay.
So and grab that, too, all right.
>> Scott Moss: So
I'm gonna go back to the client.
>> Scott Moss: And the thing about
links with the clients is that
you can compose them to
do whatever you want.
You can think of them as middleware, you
have many links that do different things.
You can have a link that Intercepts and
grab a JWT from local storage.
You could have a link that
adds something to the header,
you could have a link that logs.
They're basically, if you've ever used
Angular, they're like HTTP interceptors.
If you've used any sophisticated HTTP
client, like axios, they're interceptors.
You can do things before and
after a response is fired,
so that's basically what links are.
So we're gonna add a link that
just delay some network delay, so
we can actually see the benefit
of having an Optimistic UI.
Right now, everything's on local host, so
it's so fast, you won't even notice it,
but we wanna do that.
So what I'm gonna do here is
I'm going to import Apollo,
did I not copy that, where did it go?
There you go I wanna import Apollo
link from Apollo link like that?
>> Scott Moss: And then I'm going to make,
I'm gonna change this link
down here to HTTO link.
Move it above that one,
I’m gonna make a new link,
I’m gonna call it Delay.
And basically, what it’s got to do,
it’s gonna use set context which
is gonna come from imports.
I wanna say set context from
apollo-link-context, like this.
And this will take this takes, it takes a
callback function that takes a request and
you can return whenever you want.
I'm just gonna return a promise that times
out after 800 milliseconds to create
some delay here.
>> Scott Moss: And then I wanna make
a new link composed of those two links.
So the delay link, and
then the HTTP link and
you can do that using the ApolloLink.from
method, which you can get from ApolloLink.
>> Scott Moss: And you put them in
order that you want them to run.
So I want the delay to run first,
then I want the HTTP link, and
then I can keep this link down here.
So basically, from just generates one
link based off a whole bunch of links and
whatever order you send them.
Like I said, it's literally middleware,
whatever order you want,
that's the order they're gonna run.
>> Scott Moss: So it's just a delay,
if you don't feel doing all this, I mean,
you could just go to Chrome and freeze and
Chrome does add a network delay.
The reason I don't wanna put the network
delay or any slower than I have,
is because in the app will take
forever to load up to, cuz the CSS and
the JavaScript will take forever.
I just wanna delay the network
activities as far as APIs,
I don't wanna delay the CSS and
the JavaScript.
We'll be sitting here forever
watching that thing load and
I just don't want to do it.
But you can do a that too if you want,
cool, so now, that we have that simulated.
The update is actually,
I'm sorry, the optimistic UI
stuff is actually pretty simple.
Basically, there's two ways you can use
it where they're both the same way.
But the two places you can use it,
so you can add, basically,
the property you're going to use is called
optimistic response just like this.
It's gonna be an object,
it's not gonna be a function.
So, yeah, optimistic response as a key on
the object that you pass the use mutation.
But you can also add optimistic
response to the key inside
the mutation function that you call.
The difference is basically, it really
depends on what you need access to, right?
So if I wrote a call to optimisticResponse
object up here on the useMutation,
then this is gonna happen for
every single mutation.
Every single time createPet is invoked,
this optimisticResponse is gonna happen,
so it's global, right?
If I were just to call it down on just
this instance, it's only gonna happen
when I invoke it just this one time, if I
invoke it again, it won't happen again.
Also, if you need access
to any input variables,
then you wouldn't want to
place it on the use mutation.
Because you don't have access to
the variables that this mutation is using,
I don't know what any of
the variables are, I don't have them.
The variables don't come in until
you actually call the function,
the variables are here, right here.
So if we need to access the variables for
the optimisticResponse, then you're
gonna need to put them on the createPet.
So now, you know where you can use them.
Basically, the way OptimisticResponse is,
the whole purpose of it is that
you're trying to return an object
that's going to look exactly
like the objects that you think you're
gonna get back from your server.
And that should be pretty easy,
because we're using GraphQL.
And we know exactly what we're
getting back from the server.
So we should be able to determine
what the objects gonna look like.
So in my example, if I was creating a pet,
what am I gonna get back from the server?
Well, I've just got to look at a mutation,
I'm getting back an ID,
I know that's a stream.
If I didn't know that was a stream,
I can go look at the schema
inside of Apollo Tools.
I know that's a stream or
an ID type, same thing.
I'm getting back a name
which I know is a stream.
I'm getting back a type
which I know is an enum.
I can even go look at
those enums in the schema.
And I'm getting back an image
which is also a stream, so
if I return an object that looks
like that, I should be good to go.
That’s basically, what you have to
return here, plus some extra things.
For instance, you don’t see this, but
Apollo and most graphical frameworks
automatically add an underscore
typename to all your queries.
So every single query that you have,
this gets added.
You just don't see it in the tools like
playground, they just get rid of it.
But if you look at the response on the
data that's coming back from the network,
you'll see this.
And the typename is gonna be the name of
the type that you're trying to retrieve.
So in this case, the name of this type
would probably be Pet with a capital P,
cuz that's what our
schema defines this as.
So you would have to add those type names
here as well for every single type.
And not just for the types that
you're getting, but also for
the higher level types, like for
instance, mutation or query.
You got to add those type names,
too, you got to be very explicit about
exactly what you're gonna get back.
And like I said, these are the things
we know we're getting back.
And now I'm telling you about
the things that definitely come back,
you just don't see.
And this is the time where you
have to be explicit about those.
So basically,
show you what I'm talking about.
Basically, I said you return an object and
in this case,
the type name is probably
always gonna be mutation.
Cuz you're only running optimistic
response when you mutate something.
So the overall operation, it's type name
is mutation, so a mutation is a type.
It's just a very specific type that
graph cares about, but it is a type,
just like Pet is a type.
So we're gonna say type name, mutation.
And then from there,
you add a key with the exact name
of the mutation that you're in.
So if your mutation was called at
pet that's what this will be called,
it will be called at pet.
You're running at pet, and
then you will start putting all
the fields that you expect to come back.
And then the only difference is you
have to get those fields values,
you need to give them values that you
think your server is gonna give you back.
Some values you can't compute, for
instance, you can't compute an ID,
your database creates ID.
How would you know that?
That's fine,
you don't have to put the exact ID.
This whole thing is gonna get replaced
when it comes back from the server anyway.
But you need to put a value that
satisfies the ID requirement.
So in our example an ID is an ID type,
which is a string.
So you could literally put
any string you want in here.
Or if you actually have the ID,
because maybe this mutation is an update.
So you have access to
the ID through a variable,
you can actually put the real ID there.
In our example, we're doing a creation, so
we don't have access to an actual ID, so
we got to make up one,
so you'll make up an ID.
You also have to put the type name for
the type that the update comment,
in this case, mutation returns.
In your example,
it'll probably be Pet with a capital P.
That'll be the type name, and then you
need to put all the other fields that you
expect that mutation to come back with.
So things like an image which
anticipates it being your stream,
you can put a placeholder there.
I think there's also a type for
a pet and it has to be enum.
So it has to be either a DOG or
CAT in all caps.
You have to put a name,
you can make it whatever you want, or
you can use the name that's
coming in as a variable.
Cuz you have access to that, same thing
with the type, you have access to that.
And then that's all you gotta do is
you need to return an object that
looks exactly like the response you
expect to get back from the server.
You know you got it right, because one you
won't see any warnings in the console,
cracky will probably give you a warning.
If you try if you miss a field or
something, I couldn't do this, because you
don't have an ID field, couldn't do this,
because this image isn't there.
It'll give you a warning, it won't break,
cuz it gives you a warning, or
at least Apollo it not GraphQL.
But you know you got it right,
because you won't see a delay, so
that delay that I added.
Let's take a look at it.
So if I add a newPet,
that 802nd delay, you won't see that you
won't even see a loading screen at all.
It just won't be there,
it'll just be good to go.
But in order to enable that,
you need to opt out of having
a loading screen in the first place.
So let me get rid of this,
get rid of that.
You need to tell our Boolean here,
cuz right now, at least for me, I have
if the query is loading or if that newPet
mutation is loading, then show the loader.
Now, I never want to show the loader for
the newPet mutation, just don't
even show it, cuz I'm opting in.
For optimistic UI,
I never wanna show a loader.
If you still have that,
even with optimistic UI,
it's still gonna show a loader.
Because the loading is still gonna toggle,
the true or
false, even though you
optimistically already updated it.
You don't wanna do optimistic update and
have a loading screen that
kind of defeats the purpose.
So you gotta turn one of them on and
other one off.
So I'm opting out of showing a loading
screen for my newPet mutation and
I'm opting in for optimistic response.